= JBuilder JSON Templating

JBuilder is a simple templating engine for generating JSON output. With Builder-like DSL it allows you to have your controllers and models clean of view logic.
Primarily for Rails, but no reason not be used elsewhere. It was inspired by Builder gem and it uses JSON gem in the background.


== Motivation

A while ago I was implementing a REST API in Rails3 for my latest project and I choose JSON for primary content type.
After an easy start with Rails and JSON based API, I found myself struggling to implement according to the MVC pattern.
It gets even more annoying, when your API is growing beyond simplest example and when you want to have more control over the output format and logic.

Rails usually tackles this challenge in one of three ways:
* generating a simple JSON object in controller
* or keeping the controller clean, but putting the generating code into model's to_json method
* or having the view done in default ERB template
First two approaches are strongly oppossing MVC pattern, having the view logic in either controller or model.
Third is just too cumbersome, since ERB was meant for generating XML/HTML - and even there it doesn't exactly shine. (If you disagree, check HAML ;)

What I was really missing was a simple templating for generating JSON output, something like Builder is for XML.
If you ask me, this should come with Rails out of the box along with ERB and Builder.

Here is the solution - a Builder-like JSON templating.

== Examples and Usage

Let's say you want to produce output like this:
  {
    "user":
    {
      "id":13,
      "nickname":"antiveb",
      "email":"jurglic@antiveb.com",
      "twitter_data":
      {
        "key":"7325872",
        "token":"0",
        "secret":"0",
        "friends":
        [
          10,
          20,
          30
        ]        
      }
    }
  }
  
Your code would then look like this:
  json.user do
    json.value :id, 13
    json.nickname "antiveb"
    json.email    "jurglic@antiveb.com"
    json.twitter_data do
      json.key     "7325872"
      json.token   "0"
      json.secret  "0"
      json.friends [10, 20, 30]
    end
  end

== Setup

Just install the gem and require it in your Gemfile:
gem "jbuilder", :git => "git://github.com/antiveb/JBuilder.git"


== Improving the docs

If you find something confusing or encounter a problem with this instructions please fork this project, make the changes, and send me a pull request.

== Contact
  Author:    Uros Jurglic
  Company:   Antiveb ltd.
  Email:     jurglic@antiveb.com
  Home Page: www.antiveb.com
  License:   MIT Licence (www.opensource.org/licenses/mit-license.html)